			 The InfoVis Toolkit
	 by Jean-Daniel Fekete (Jean-Daniel.Fekete@inria.fr)

The InfoVis Toolkit is a Interactive Graphics Toolkit written in Java
to ease the development of Information Visualization applications and
components.

The main characteristics of the InfoVis Toolkit are:
    
Unified data structure 
	The base data structure is a table of columns.  Columns
	contain objects of homogeneous types, such as integers or
	strings.  Trees and Graphs are derived from Tables.

Rich set of data structures and visualizations
	Support is already provided for tables, trees and graphs.
	Visualizations include time series and scatter plots for
	tables, node-link diagrams and treemap for trees, node-link
	diagrams and adjacency matrices for graphs.

Unified set of interactive components
	Interactive filtering (a.k.a. dynamic queries) can be
	performed with the same control objects and components
	regardless of the data structure, simplifying the reuse of
	existing components and the design of generic ones.

Small memory footprint
	Using homogeneous columns instead of compound types improves
	dramatically the memory required to store large tables, trees
	or graphs, and generally the time to manage them.

Fast

	The InfoVis Toolkit can use accelerated graphics provided by
	Agile2D (http://www.cs.umd.edu/hcil/agile2d/index.shtml), an
	implementations of Java2D based on the OpenGL API for hardware
	accelerated graphics.  On machine with hardware acceleration,
	some visualizations redisplay 100 times faster than with the
	standard Java2D implementation.

Extensible
	The InfoVis Toolkit is meant to incorporate new information
	visualization techniques and is distributed with the full
	sources and with a very liberal licence.  It could be a base
	for student projects, reseach projects or commercial products.


* DOWNLOADING

The InfoVis Toolkit is distributed under the Open Source Q Public
License and is available at http://www.lri.fr/~fekete/InfovisToolkit.

* COMPILING

The InfoVis Toolkit is configured to be compiled by "ant", the Apache
building tool, available at http://ant.apache.org/.  See the file
build.xml for instructions.

* RUNNING

The InfoVis Toolkit provides several programs to run, the simplest
being to run the library itself as follows:
java -jar infovis.jar

The InfoVis toolkit requires several libraries to be present in the
"lib" directory, distributed with the Toolkit.  If you run the program
outside of the distribution library, it will complain that it cannot
find required jar files.  For graph visualization using node-link
diagrams, the free GraphiViz programs are also required
(www.graphviz.org).

Several data sets are available in the "data" library.  The infovis
program will read them correctly but you should provide the right
kinds of files to example programs.  The data files can be recognized
from their file extesion usually, except XML files that can contain
trees or graphs.  Table files have TQD or CSV extension.  Tree files
have TM3 or XML extension.  Graph files have XML or DOT extension.

You can also read a directory as a table or tree.

* THE Q PUBLIC LICENCE (QPL), VERSION 1.0 AND GPL-COVERED PROGRAMS

Here is what the GNU licence page says about the QPL, instantiated for
the infovis library (see http://www.gnu.org/licenses/license-list.html
for details):

Since the QPL is incompatible with the GNU GPL, you cannot take a
GPL-covered program and QPL-covered program and link them together, no
matter how.

if you have written a program that uses QPL-covered library (called
infovis), and you want to release your program under the GNU
GPL, you can easily do that. You can resolve the conflict for your
program by adding a notice like this to it:

  As a special exception, you have permission to link this program
  with the infovis library and distribute executables, as long as you
  follow the requirements of the GNU GPL in regard to all of the
  software in the executable aside from infovis.

You can do this, legally, if you are the copyright holder for the
program. Add it in the source files, after the notice that says the
program is covered by the GNU GPL.
